WKS01 should be able to ping champlain.edu via the default gateway(fw01) at 10.0.5.2..

Find and edit the virtual machine properties for ad01.  Adjust the network adapter as so:
  -net adapter 1 == the sys255 lan-yourname 
 
 Find and edit the virtual machine properties for ad01.  Adjust the network adapter as so:
 adapter 1 is the sys255 lan first.last name 
Product Key -> Do this later
Administrator Password(P@ssw0rd)

If it is not already running, Find and invoke server manager from the start menu

Set the following: (on the local server)
IP Address:  10.0.5.5
Netmask: 255.255.255.0
Gateway 10.0.5.2 (Make sure fw01 is running).
DNS 10.0.5.2
Discoverable option.  If this dialog shows up, select Yes for those systems on your LAN.
Time should be set to UTC-5:00 Eastern Time (US & Canada)
Computer name:  ad01-yourname (make sure you get this right). 

reboot

ping google.com to ensure its still connected

Open Server Manager.  From the Manage menu, Select Add Roles and Features
Select Active Directory Domain Services->Add Features.  Pick Active Directory Domain Services:
Choose the restart destination server option and select yes on the confirmation dialog.  
After installation, we need to configure our server to be the primary domain controller for our domain (yourname.local)

We are going to create a new forest.  Name this forest yourname.local, where yourname is your first name.
Enter the DSRM password(P@ssw0rd).  This password is used to recover the directory in case of error.  You would use it in production if things went terribly wrong.

Installation will take a few minutes and a reboot.  When you log back in, you will be logging in as the Domain Administrator as opposed to the local Administrator.

Adding a DNS Record
    --Find and invoke DNS Manager from the Server Manager/DNS/AD01 context menu
    --Find and expand the forward lookup zone for your new domain
    --You should have an entry for ad01.yourname.  This allows you to ping ad01 by hostname and/or domain name.  We are going to add an entry for fw01 
        --From the DNS Manager, select New Host (A or AAAA name):
        --Add a reference to fw01-john, go ahead and check "Create associated (PTR) record"\
 When your host is added, the capability to resolve a host by its hostname is enabled.  The reverse is not true.  We cannot get a hostname by IP address until we create a reverse lookup zone.

Add a reverse primary lookup for all IP addresses in the 10.0.5.0/24 Network by selecting the New Zone options from the right-click context menu as shown below.  Use the defaults and add a Network ID for 10.0.5.


Create a new PTR records from the A record of fw01-yourname and ad01-yourname by unchecking, applying checking the update PTR record check box and re-applying fw01's properties.
    
The reverse dns entry for fw01 and ad01 should now be in the 5.0.10 reverse lookup zone.  You may need to refresh the view:

create a named domain administrator account as well as a named non-privileged user account
On AD01, find the Active Directory Users and Computers option
Under the Domain's user folder Add a new User
This user (first.lastname-adm) will be a Domain Administrator and will have a distinct suffix (ADM) to show this.
Uncheck user must change password at next login.
Add this user to the Domain Admins Group


Create a non-privileged account (Skip the addition to Domain Admins) for user first.lastname
From this point forward you will login using your first.lastname or first.lastname-adm account depending on the privileges you need.

Set wks01's DNS to 10.0.5.5 (ad01's address)

ping john.local

Joining WKS01 to your new domain
If you haven't changed the hostname from the random assigned hostname, do so now.  Call it wks01-yourname

Restart wks01

